<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Praise for THE CODDLING OF THE AMERICAN MIND, The Coddling of the American Mind</title>
		<link href="../css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:c184bb5b-76e3-4be5-b915-fdace6b2a9aa" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780735224902_EPUB">
		<div>
			<a id="_idParaDest-1"/>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Quote-First"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_i" title="i"/>“This book synthesizes the teachings of many disciplines to illuminate the causes of major problems besetting college students and campuses, including declines in mental health, academic freedom, and collegiality. More important, the authors present evidence-based strategies for overcoming these challenges. An engrossing, thought-provoking, and ultimately inspiring read.”</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Source"><b>—Nadine Strossen</b>, past president, ACLU; professor, New York Law School; and author of <i>HATE: Why We Should Resist It with Free Speech, Not Censorship</i></p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Quote">“We can talk ourselves into believing that some kinds of speech will shatter us, or we can talk ourselves out of that belief. The authors know the science. We are not as fragile as our self-appointed protectors suppose. Read this deeply informed book to become a more resilient soul in a more resilient democracy.”</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Source">—<b>Philip E. Tetlock</b>, professor, University of Pennsylvania, and author of <i>Superforecasting</i></p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Quote">“This book is a much-needed guide for how to thrive in a pluralistic society. Lukianoff and Haidt demonstrate how ancient wisdom and modern psychology can encourage more dialogue across lines of difference, build stronger institutions, and make us happier. They provide an antidote to our seemingly intractable divisions, and not a moment too soon.”</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Source">—<b>Kirsten Powers</b><i>,</i> CNN political analyst, <i>USA Today</i> columnist, and author of <i>The Silencing</i></p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Quote">“A compelling and timely argument against attitudes and practices that, however well-intended, are damaging our universities, harming our children, and leaving an entire generation intellectually and emotionally ill-prepared for an ever more fraught and complex world. A brave and necessary work.”</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Source">—<b>Rabbi Lord Jonathan Sacks</b>, Emeritus Chief Rabbi of UK &amp; Commonwealth; professor, New York University; and author of <i>Not in God’s Name</i></p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Quote">“Objectionable words and ideas, as defined by self-appointed guardians on university campuses, are often treated like violence from sticks and stones. Many students cringe at robust debate; maintaining their ideas of good and evil requires no less than the silencing of disagreeable speakers. Lukianoff and Haidt brilliantly explain how this drift to fragility occurred, how the distinction between words and actions was lost, and what needs to be done. Critical reading to understand the current campus conflicts.”</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Source">—<b>Mark Yudof</b><i>,</i> president emeritus, University of California; and professor emeritus, UC Berkeley School of Law</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Quote"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_ii" title="ii"/>“I lament the title of this book, as it may alienate the very people who need to engage with its arguments and obscures its message of inclusion. Equal parts mental health manual, parenting guide, sociological study, and political manifesto, it points to a positive way forward of hope, health, and humanism. I only wish I had read it when I was still a professor and a much younger mother.”</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Front-Sales-Source">—<b>Anne-Marie Slaughter</b>, president and CEO, New America; and author of <i>Unfinished Business</i></p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>