<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Copyright, The Coddling of the American Mind</title>
		<link href="../css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:c184bb5b-76e3-4be5-b915-fdace6b2a9aa" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="copyright-page" id="x9780735224902_EPUB-3">
		<div>
			<a id="_idParaDest-6"/>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_viii" title="viii"/>PENGUIN PRESS</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text">An imprint of Penguin Random House LLC</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text">375 Hudson Street</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text">New York, New York 10014</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text"><a href="http://penguinrandomhouse.com">penguinrandomhouse.com</a></p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text-Space">Copyright © 2018 by Greg Lukianoff and Jonathan Haidt</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text">Penguin supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin to continue to publish books for every reader.</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text-Space">Excerpt from “Professors like me can’t stay silent about this extremist moment on campuses” by Lucía Martínez Valdivia. Reprinted with the permission of the author. First published in the <i>Washington Post</i>, October 27, 2017.</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text-Space">Excerpt from <i>Your Six-Year-Old: Loving and Defiant</i>, by Louise Bates Ames &amp; Frances L. Ilg. Copyright © 1979 by The Gesell Institute of Child Development, Louise Bates Ames and Frances L. Ilg. Used by permission of Bantam Books, an imprint of Random House, a division of Penguin Random House LLC. All rights reserved.</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text-Space">Form on <a href="29_Appendix_1_How_to_Do_.xhtml">this page</a> from <i>Treatment Plans and Interventions for Depression and Anxiety Disorders</i>, Second Edition, Robert L. Leahy, Stephen J. F. Holland, and Lata K. McGinn. Copyright © 2011 by Guilford Press. Reprinted with permission of Guilford Press.</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text-Space">ISBN 9780735224896 (hardcover)</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text">ISBN 9780735224902 (ebook)</p>
			<p class="x01-FM-Copyright-Text-Space">While the author has made every effort to provide accurate telephone numbers, Internet addresses, and other contact information at the time of publication, neither the publisher nor the author assumes any responsibility for errors or for changes that occur after publication. Further, the publisher does not have any control over and does not assume any responsibility for author or third-party Web sites or their content.</p>
		</div>
		<p id="versionNumber" style="font-size:0.6em; margin:1.5em; text-align:center;">Version_1</p>
	</body>
</html>