<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>References, The Coddling of the American Mind</title>
		<link href="../css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:c184bb5b-76e3-4be5-b915-fdace6b2a9aa" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780735224902_EPUB-30">
		<div>
			<h1 class="x13-BM-Head" id="_idParaDest-54"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_321" title="321"/>REFERENCES</h1>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">This section contains all books and academic articles referred to in the text or in the endnotes. Citations for newspaper and magazine articles, reports, blog posts, and online videos are given in the endnotes.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio-First">Abramowitz, S. I., Gomes, B., &amp; Abramowitz, C. V. (1975). Publish or politic: Referee bias in manuscript review. <i>Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 5</i>(3), 187–200.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Adams, J. S. (1963). Towards an understanding of inequity. <i>The Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, 67</i>(5), 422–436.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Adams, J. S. (1965). Inequity in social exchange. In L. Berkowitz (Ed.), <i>Advances in experimental social psychology</i> (Vol. 2, pp. 267–299). New York, NY: Academic Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Adams, J. S., &amp; Rosenbaum, W. B. (1962). The relationship of worker productivity to cognitive dissonance about wage inequities. <i>Journal of Applied Psychology, 69</i>, 161–164.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Alexander, M. (2010). <i>The new Jim Crow: Mass incarceration in the age of colorblindness.</i> New York, NY: The New Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Almas, I., Cappelen, A. W., Sorensen, E. O., &amp; Tungodden, B. (2010). Fairness and the development of inequality acceptance. <i>Science, 328</i>, 1176–1178.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Anderson, L., Lewis, G., Araya, R., Elgie, R., Harrison, G., Proudfoot, J., . . . Williams, C. (2005). Self-help books for depression: How can practitioners and patients make the right choice? <i>British Journal of General Practice</i>, <i>55</i>(514), 387–392.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Aristotle. (1941). <i>Nichomachean ethics</i> (W. D. Ross, Trans.). New York, NY: Random House.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Arnett, J. J. (2004). <i>Emerging adulthood: The winding road from the late teens through the twenties</i>. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Aurelius, M. (2nd century CE/1964). <i>Meditations</i> (M. Staniforth, Trans.). London: Penguin Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Balko, R. (2013). <i>Rise of the warrior cop: The militarization of America’s police forces</i>. New York, NY: Public Affairs.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Bassok, D., Latham, S., &amp; Rorem, A. (2016). Is kindergarten the new first grade? <i>AERA Open, 1</i>(4), 1–31.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Bellah, R. N. (1967). Civil religion in America. <i>Journal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 96</i>(1), 1–21.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Bergesen, A. J. (1978). A Durkheimian theory of “witch-hunts” with the Chinese Cultural Revolution of 1966–1969 as an example. <i>Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion, 17</i>(1), 19.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Berreby, D. (2005). <i>Us and them: Understanding your tribal mind</i>. New York, NY: Little, Brown.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Berry, J. M., &amp; Sobieraj, S. (2014). <i>The outrage industry: Public opinion media and the new incivility</i>. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Bishop, B. (2008). <i>The big sort: Why the clustering of like-minded America is tearing us apart.</i> Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Black, J. E., Jones, T. A., Nelson, C. A., &amp; Greenough, W. T. (1998). Neuronal plasticity and the developing brain. In N. E. Alessi, J. T. Coyle, S. I. Harrison, &amp; S. Eth (Eds.), <i>Handbook of child and adolescent psychiatry</i> (Vol. 6, pp. 31–53). New York, NY: John Wiley &amp; Sons.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Bloom, P. (2014). <i>Just babies: The origins of good and evil</i>. New York, NY: Penguin Random House.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Boethius. (ca. 524 CE/2011). <i>The consolation of philosophy</i> (R. H. Green, Trans.). Mansfield Centre, CT: Martino.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Bonanno, G. A., Westphal, M., &amp; Mancini, A. D. (2011). Resilience to loss and potential trauma. <i>Annual Review of Clinical Psychology, 7</i>, 511–535.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_322" title="322"/>Buddelmeyer, H., &amp; Powdthavee, N. (2015). Can having internal locus of control insure against negative shocks? Psychological evidence from panel data. <i>Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, 122</i>, 88–109.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Burns, D. D. (1980). <i>Feeling good: The new mood therapy</i>. New York, NY: Avon Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Burns, D. D. (1999). <i>The feeling good handbook</i>. New York, NY: Plume.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Butler, A. C., Chapman, J. E., Forman, E. M., &amp; Beck, A. T. (2006). The empirical status of cognitive-behavioral therapy: A review of meta-analyses. <i>Clinical Psychology Review, 26</i>(1), 17–31.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Byrom, T. (Ed. and Trans.). (1993). <i>Dhammapada: The sayings of the Buddha</i>. Boston, MA: Shambhala.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Campbell, B., &amp; Manning, J. (2014). Microaggression and moral cultures. <i>Comparative sociology, 13</i>, 692–726.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Campbell, B., &amp; Manning, J. (2018). <i>The rise of victimhood culture: Microaggressions, safe spaces, and the new culture wars</i>. [No city]: Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Carney, D. R., Jost, J. T., Gosling, S. D., &amp; Potter, J. (2008). The secret lives of liberals and conservatives: Personality profiles, interaction styles, and the things they leave behind. <i>Political Psychology, 29</i>(6), 807–840.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Chan, W. T. (Ed. and Trans.). (1963). <i>A source book in Chinese philosophy</i>. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Chang, E. (2018). <i>Brotopia: Breaking up the boys’ club of Silicon Valley</i>. New York, NY: Portfolio/Penguin.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Chansky T. (2004). <i>Freeing your child from anxiety: Powerful, practical solutions to overcome your child’s fears, worries, and phobias</i>. New York, NY: Random House.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Chen, P., Coccaro, E. F., &amp; Jacobson, K. C. (2012). Hostile attributional bias, negative emotional responding, and aggression in adults: Moderating effects of gender and impulsivity. <i>Aggressive Behavior, 38</i>(1), 47–63.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Chetty, R., Friedman, J. N., Saez, E., Turner, N., &amp; Yagen, D. (2017). Mobility report cards: The role of colleges in intergenerational mobility. Unpublished manuscript, retrieved from: <a href="http://www.equality-of-opportu">http://www.equality-of-opportunity.org/papers/coll_mrc_paper.pdf</a></p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Christakis, E. (2016). <i>The importance of being little: What young children really need from grownups</i>. New York, NY: Viking.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Christakis, N. A. (2008, December 10). This allergies hysteria is just nuts. <i>BMJ,</i> <i>337</i>.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Chua, A. (2018). <i>Political tribes: Group instinct and the fate of nations</i>. New York, NY: Penguin Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cikara, M., &amp; Van Bavel, J. J. (2014). The neuroscience of intergroup relations: An integrative review. <i>Perspectives on Psychological Science,</i> <i>9</i>(245).</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Clark, J. L., Algoe, S. B., &amp; Green, M. C. (2018). Social network sites and well-being: The role of social connection. <i>Current Directions in Psychological Science</i>, <i>27</i>(1), 32–37.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Clements, R. (2004). An investigation of the status of outdoor play. <i>Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood, 5</i>(1), 68–80.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cohen, E. E., Ejsmond-Frey, R., Knight, N., &amp; Dunbar, R. I. (2009). Rowers high: Behavioural synchrony is correlated with elevated pain thresholds. <i>Biology Letters, 6</i>(1), 106–108.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Collier, L. (2016). Growth after trauma. <i>APA Monitor, 47, </i>48<i>.</i></p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Collins, P. H., &amp; Bilge, S. (2016). <i>Intersectionality</i>. Cambridge, UK: Polity Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cooper, H., Civey Robinson, J., &amp; Patall, E. (2006). Does homework improve academic achievement? A synthesis of research, 1987–2003. <i>Review of Educational Research,</i> <i>Spring 2006,</i> <i>76</i>(1), 1–62.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cooper, H., Lindsay, J. J., Nye, B., &amp; Greathouse, S. (1998). Relationships among attitudes about homework, amount of homework assigned and completed, and student achievement. <i>Journal of Educational Psychology, 90</i>(1), 70–83.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cooper, H., Steenbergen-Hu, S., &amp; Dent, A. (2012). Homework. In K. R. Harris, S. Graham, T. Urdan, A. G. Bus, S. Major, &amp; H. L. Swanson (Eds.), <i>APA educational psychology handbook, Vol. 3. Application to learning and teaching</i> (pp. 475–495). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Costello, E. J. (1982). Locus of control and depression in students and psychiatric outpatients. <i>Journal of Clinical Psychology 38</i>(2), 340–343.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Crawford, J. T., &amp; Jussim, L. J. (2018). <i>The politics of social psychology</i>. New York, NY: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Crenshaw, K. M. (1989). Demarginalizing the intersection of race and sex: A black feminist critique of antidiscrimination doctrine, feminist theory and antiracist politics. <i>University of Chicago Legal Forum, 1989</i>(1).</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Crick, N. R., &amp; Grotpeter, J. K. (1995). Relational aggression, gender, and social-psychological adjustment. <i>Child Development, 66</i>(3), 710–722.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_323" title="323"/>Curtiss, S. (1977). <i>Genie: A psycholinguistic study of a modern-day “wild child.”</i> Boston, MA: Academic Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Damon, W. (1979). <i>The social world of the child</i>. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">de Tocqueville, A. (1839/2012). <i>Democracy in America</i> (E. Nolla, Ed.; J. T. Schleifer, Trans.) Indianapolis: Liberty Fund.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Deaner, R. O., Balish, S. M., &amp; Lombardo, M. P. (2016). Sex differences in sports interest and motivation: An evolutionary perspective. <i>Evolutionary Behavioral Sciences,</i> <i>10</i>(2), 73–97.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Deaner, R. O., Geary, D. C., Puts, D. A., Ham, S. A., Kruger, J., Fles, E., . . . Grandis, T. (2012). A sex difference in the predisposition for physical competition: Males play sports much more than females even in the contemporary U.S. <i>PLoS ONE, 7</i>, e49168.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">DeLoache, J. S., Chiong, C., Sherman, K., Islam, N., Vanderborght, M., Troseth, G. L., Strouse, G. A., &amp; O’Doherty, K. (2010). Do babies learn from baby media? <i>Psychological Science, 21</i>(11), 1570–1574.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Deresiewicz, W. (2015). <i>Excellent sheep: The miseducation of the American elite and the way to a meaningful life</i>. New York, NY: Free Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Dreger, A. (2015). <i>Galileo’s middle finger: Heretics, activists, and one scholar’s search for justice</i>. New York, NY: Penguin Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Duarte, J. L., Crawford, J. T., Stern, C., Haidt, J., Jussim, L., &amp; Tetlock, P. E. (2015). Political diversity will improve social psychological science. <i>Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 38</i>, 1–13.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Durkheim, E. (1915/1965). <i>The elementary forms of the religious life</i> (J. W. Swain, Trans.). New York, NY: Free Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Du Toit, G. D., Katz, Y., Sasieni, P., Mesher, D., Maleki, S. J., Fisher, H. R., . . . Lack, G. (2008). Early consumption of peanuts in infancy is associated with a low prevalence of peanut allergy. <i>Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, 122</i>(5), 984–991.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Du Toit, G. D., Roberts, G., Sayre, P. H., Bahnson, H. T., Radulovic, S., Santos, A. F., . . . Lack, G. (2015). Randomized trial of peanut consumption in infants at risk for peanut allergy. <i>New England Journal of Medicine, 372</i>(9), 803–813.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ebner, J. (2017). <i>The rage: The vicious circle of Islamist and far right extremism</i>. New York, NY: Tauris.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Eggertson, L. (2010, March 9). Lancet retracts 12-year-old article linking autism to MMR vaccines. <i>CMAJ: Canadian Medical Association Journal, 182</i>(4), E199–E200. <a href="http://doi.org/10.1503/cmaj.109-3179">http://doi.org/10.1503/cmaj.109-3179</a></p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ehrenreich, B. (2006). <i>Dancing in the streets: A history of collective joy</i>. New York, NY: Metropolitan Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Einon, D., Morgan, M. J., &amp; Kibbler, C. C. (1978). Brief periods of socialization and later behavior in the rat. <i>Developmental Psychobiology, 11</i>, 213–225.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Engels, F. (1888/1976). <i>Ludwig Feuerbach and the end of classical German philosophy.</i> Peking: Foreign Languages Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Epictetus &amp; Lebell, S. (1st–2nd century/1995). <i>Art of living: The classical manual on virtue, happiness, and effectiveness</i>. New York, NY: HarperOne.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Fiske, A. P. (1992). The four elementary forms of sociality: Framework for a unified theory of social relations. <i>Psychological Review, 99</i>(4), 689–723.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Foa, E. B., &amp; Kozak, M. J. (1986). Emotional processing of fear: Exposure to corrective information. <i>Psychological Bulletin, 99</i>, 20–35.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Frankl, E. (1959/2006). <i>Man’s search for meaning</i>. Boston, MA: Beacon Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ganti, L., Bodhit, A. N., Daneshvar, Y., Patel, P. S., Pulvino, C., Hatchitt, K., . . . Tyndall, J. A. (2013). Impact of helmet use in traumatic brain injuries associated with recreational vehicles. <i>Advances in Preventive Medicine, 2013,</i> 1–6.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ghitza, Y., &amp; Gelman, A. (2014, July 7). The Great Society, Reagan’s revolution, and generations of presidential voting. Working paper. Retrieved from <a href="https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2014/07/06/generations2/assets/cohort_voting_20140707.pdf">https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2014/07/06/generations2/assets/cohort_voting_20140707.pdf</a></p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ginsberg, B. (2011). <i>The fall of the faculty: The rise of the all-administrative university and why it matters</i>. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Gosling, S. (2008). <i>Snoop: What your stuff says about you</i>. New York, NY: Basic Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Gotlib, I. H., &amp; Joormann, J. (2010). Cognition and depression: Current status and future directions. <i>Annual Review of Clinical Psychology, 6</i>, 285–312.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Gratz, K. L., Conrad, S. D., &amp; Roemer, L. (2002). Risk factors for deliberate self-harm among college students. <i>American Journal of Orthopsychiatry 1</i>, 128–140.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_324" title="324"/>Gray, H. H. (2012). <i>Searching for utopia: Universities and their histories.</i> Berkeley: University of California Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Gray, P. (2011). The decline of play and the rise of psychopathology in children and adolescents. <i>American Journal of Play, 3</i>(4), 443–463.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Gray, P. (In press). Evolutionary functions of play: Practice, resilience, innovation, and cooperation. In P. Smith &amp; J. Roopnarine (Eds.), <i>The Cambridge handbook of play: Developmental and disciplinary perspectives</i>. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Greenwald, A. G., Banaji, M. R., &amp; Nosek, B. A. (2015). Statistically small effects of the Implicit Association Test can have societally large effects. <i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 108</i>(4), 553–561.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Guinier, L. (1994). <i>The tyranny of the majority: Fundamental fairness in representative democracy</i>. New York, NY: Free Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hacking, I. (1991). The making and molding of child abuse. <i>Critical Inquiry, 17</i>, 253–288.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Haidt, J. (2006). <i>The happiness hypothesis: Finding modern truth in ancient wisdom</i>. New York, NY: Basic Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Haidt, J. (2012). <i>The righteous mind: Why good people are divided by politics and religion</i>. New York, NY: Pantheon Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Haji, N. (2011). <i>The sweetness of tears.</i> New York, NY: William Morrow.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hare, C., &amp; Poole, K. T. (2014). The polarization of contemporary American politics. <i>Polity, 46</i>, 411–429.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Haslam, N. (2016). Concept creep: Psychology’s expanding concepts of harm and pathology. <i>Psychological Inquiry, 27</i>(1), 1–17.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hayek, F. A. (1976). <i>The mirage of social justice</i>, Vol. 2 of <i>Law, legislation, and liberty.</i> Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Heider, F. (1958). <i>The psychology of interpersonal relationships</i>. New York, NY: John Wiley &amp; Sons.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hirsh-Pasek, K. Golinkoff, R. M., Berk, L. E., &amp; Singer. D. G. (2009). <i>A mandate for playful learning in preschool: Presenting the evidence</i>. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hoffer, E. (1951/2010). <i>The true believer: Thoughts on the nature of mass movements</i>. New York, NY: Harper Perennial Modern Classics.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hofferth, S. L., &amp; Sandberg, J. F. (2001). Changes in American children’s time, 1981–1997. In S. L. Hofferth &amp; T. J. Owens (Eds.), <i>Children at the millennium: Where have we come from? Where are we going? </i>(pp. 193–229). Amsterdam: Elsevier.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hogg, M. A. (2016). Social identity theory. <i>Encyclopedia of Identity,</i> 3–17.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hol, T., Berg, C. V., Ree, J. V., &amp; Spruijt, B. (1999). Isolation during the play period in infancy decreases adult social interactions in rats. <i>Behavioural Brain Research, 100</i>(1–2), 91–97.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Holland, J. H. (1992). Complex adaptive systems. <i>Daedalus, 121,</i> 17–30.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hollon, S. D., &amp; DeRubeis, R. J. (In press). Outcome studies in cognitive therapy. In R. L. Leahy (Ed.), <i>Contemporary cognitive therapy: Theory, research, and practice</i> (2nd ed.)<i>.</i> New York, NY: Guilford Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Horwitz, S. (2015). Cooperation over coercion: The importance of unsupervised childhood play for democracy and liberalism. <i>Cosmos+Taxis,</i> 3–16.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hunter, D., &amp; Tice, P. (2016, September). 2015 national survey on drug use and health: Methodological summary and definitions: B.4.8 Major depressive episode (depression). Rockville, MD: Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Huseman, R. C., Hatfield, J. D., &amp; Miles, E. W. (1987). A new perspective on equity theory: The equity sensitivity construct. <i>Academy of Management Review, 12</i>, 222–234.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ip, G. (2015). <i>Foolproof: Why safety can be dangerous and how danger makes us safe</i>. New York, NY: Little, Brown.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Iyengar, S., &amp; Krupenkin, M. (2018). The strengthening of partisan affect. <i>Advances in Political Psychology, 39, </i>Suppl. 1, 2018, 201–218.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Johnson, J. S., &amp; Newport, E. L. (1989). Critical period effects in second language learning: The influence of maturational state on the acquisition of English as a second language. <i>Cognitive Psychology, 21</i>(1), 60–99.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Jost, J. T., Banaji, M. R., &amp; Nosek, B. A. (2004). A decade of system justification theory: Accumulated evidence of conscious and unconscious bolstering of the status quo. <i>Political Psychology,</i> <i>25</i>(6), 881–919.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kahneman, D. (2011). <i>Thinking fast and slow</i>. New York, NY: Farrar, Straus and Giroux.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kanngiesser, P., &amp; Warneken, F. (2012). Young children consider merit when sharing resources with others. <i>PLOS ONE 7</i>, e43979. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0043979">https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0043979</a></p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kerr, C. (1963). <i>The uses of the university.</i> Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_325" title="325"/>King, M. L. (1963/1981). <i>Strength to love</i>. Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">LaFreniere, P. (2011). Evolutionary functions of social play: Life histories, sex differences, and emotion regulation. <i>American Journal of Play, 3</i>(4), 464–488.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Langbert, M., Quain, A. J., &amp; Klein, D. B. (2016). Faculty voter registration in economics, history, journalism, law, and psychology. <i>Econ Journal Watch, 13</i>(3), 422–451.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lareau, A. (2011). <i>Unequal childhoods: Class, race, and family life</i>. 2nd edition. Berkeley: University of California Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Leahy, R. L., Holland, S. F. J., &amp; McGuinn, L. K. (2011). <i>Treatment plans and interventions for depression and anxiety disorders. </i>2nd edition. New York, NY: Guilford Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lewis, H. R. (2007). <i>Excellence without a soul: Does liberal education have a future?</i> New York, NY: PublicAffairs.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lilienfeld, S. O. (2017). Microaggressions. <i>Perspectives on Psychological Science,</i> <i>12</i>(1), 138–169.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lilla, M. (2017). <i>The once and future liberal: After identity politics.</i> New York, NY: Harper.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lind, E. A., &amp; Tyler, T. R. (1988). <i>The social psychology of procedural justice</i>. New York, NY: Plenum Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lukianoff, G. (2014). <i>Unlearning liberty: Campus censorship and the end of American debate</i>. New York, NY: Encounter Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Luthar, S., &amp; Latendresse, S. (2005). Children of the affluent: Challenges to well-being.<i> Current Directions in Psychological Science, 14,</i> 49–53.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Maccoby, E. E. (1998). <i>The two sexes: Growing up apart, coming together. </i>Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">MacFarquhar, R., &amp; Schoenhals, M. (2006). <i>Mao’s last revolution</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mandela, N. (2003). <i>In his own words</i>. New York, NY: Little, Brown.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mann, T. E., &amp; Ornstein, N. J. (2012). <i>It’s even worse than it looks: How the American constitutional system collided with the new politics of extremism</i>. New York, NY: Basic Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Marano, H. E. (2008). <i>A nation of wimps</i>. New York, NY: Crown Archetype.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mascaro, J. (Ed. and Trans.). (1995). <i>Buddha’s teachings</i>. New York, NY: Penguin Classics.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">McClintock, C. G., Spaulding, C. B., &amp; Turner, H. A. (1965). Political orientations of academically affiliated psychologists. <i>American Psychologist, 20</i>(3), 211–221.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">McCrae, R. R. (1996). Social consequences of experiential openness. <i>Psychological Bulletin, 120</i>(3), 323–337.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mercado, M. C., Holland, K., Leemis, R. W., Stone, D. M., &amp; Wang, J. (2017). Trends in emergency department visits for nonfatal self-inflicted injuries among youth aged 10 to 24 years in the United States, 2001–2015. <i>JAMA, 318</i>(19), 1931.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mill, J. S. (1859/2003). <i>On liberty</i>. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Milton, J., &amp; Blake, W. (2017). <i>Paradise lost</i>. London: Sirius Publishing.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Misra, S., Cheng, L., Genevie, J., &amp; Yuan, M. (2014). The iPhone effect: The quality of in-person social interactions in the presence of mobile devices. <i>Environment and Behavior,</i> <i>48</i>(2), 275–298.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Morgan, K. P. (1996). Describing the emperor’s new clothes: Three myths of educational (in-)equity. In A. Diller et al., <i>The gender question in education: Theory, pedagogy, and politics</i> (pp. 105–122). Boulder, CO: Westview Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mose, T. R. (2016). <i>The playdate: Parents, children, and the new expectations of play</i>. New York, NY: New York University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Murray, P. (1945). An American credo. <i>Common Ground, 1945</i>(4), 22–24.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mustoe, A. C., Taylor, J. H., Birnie, A. K., Huffman, M. C., &amp; French, J. A. (2014). Gestational cortisol and social play shapes development of marmosets’ HPA functioning and behavioral responses to stressors. <i>Developmental Psychobiology, 56</i>, 1229–1243.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">National Center for Education Statistics. (1993, January). 120 years of American education: A statistical portrait. Retrieved from <a href="https://nces.ed.gov/pubs93/93442.pdf">https://nces.ed.gov/pubs93/93442.pdf</a></p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Nietzsche, F. W. (1889/1997). <i>Twilight of the idols</i> (R. Polt, Trans.). Indianapolis, IN: Hackett Publishing.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Nolen-Hoeksema, S., &amp; Girgus, J. S. (1994, May). The emergence of gender differences in depression during adolescence. <i>Psychological Bulletin, 115</i>(3), 424–443.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Norton, M. B. (2007). <i>In the devil’s snare: The Salem witchcraft crisis of 1693</i>. New York, NY: Random House.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Novotney, A. (2014). Students under pressure: College and university counseling centers are examining how best to serve the growing number of students seeking their services. <i>Monitor on Psychology, 45</i>, 36.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_326" title="326"/>Nozick, R. (1974). <i>Anarchy, state, and utopia</i>. New York, NY: Basic Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Okada, H., Kuhn, C., Feillet, H., &amp; Bach, J. (2010). The “hygiene hypothesis” for autoimmune and allergic diseases: An update. <i>Clinical &amp; Experimental Immunology, 160</i>, 1–9.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ostrom, E. (1990). <i>Governing the commons: The evolution of institutions for collective action</i>. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ostrom, V. (1997). <i>The meaning of democracy and the vulnerability of democracies</i>. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Pariser, E. (2011). <i>The filter bubble: How the new personalized web is changing what we read and how we think.</i> New York, NY: Penguin Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Pavlac, B. A. (2009). <i>Witch hunts in the Western world: Persecution and punishment from the Inquisition through the Salem trials</i>. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Peterson, C., Maier, S. F., &amp; Seligman, M. E. P. (1993). <i>Learned helplessness: A theory for the age of personal control</i>. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Piaget, J. (1932/1965). <i>The moral judgement of the child</i> (M. Gabain, Trans.). New York, NY: Macmillan.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Pierce, C. M. (1970). Offensive mechanisms. In F. B. Barbour (Ed.), <i>The black seventies</i> (pp. 265–282). Boston, MA: Porter Sargent.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Pinker, S. (2016). <i>The blank slate: The modern denial of human nature</i>. New York, NY: Penguin Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Pinker, S. (2017). <i>Enlightenment now: The case for reason, science, humanism,</i> and progress. New York, NY: Viking.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Prociuk, T. J., Breen, L. J., &amp; Lussier, R. J. (1976). Hopelessness, internal-external locus of control, and depression. <i>Journal of Clinical Psychology</i> <i>32</i>(2), 299–300.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Putnam, R. D. (2000). <i>Bowling alone: The collapse and revival of American community.</i> New York, NY: Simon &amp; Schuster.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Putnam, R. D. (2015). <i>Our kids: The American dream in crisis</i>. New York, NY: Simon &amp; Schuster.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Rawls, J. (1971). <i>A theory of justice</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Reeves, R. V., Haidt, J., &amp; Cicirelli, D. (2018). <i>All minus one: John Stuart Mill’s ideas on free speech illustrated</i>. New York, NY: Heterodox Academy.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Rempel K. (2012). Mindfulness for children and youth: A review of the literature with an argument for school-based implementation. <i>Canadian Journal of Counselling and Psychotherapy, 46</i>(3), 201–220.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ridley, M. (2010). <i>The rational optimist: How prosperity evolves</i>. New York, NY: Harper.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ross, M., &amp; Sicoly, F. (1979). Egocentric biases in availability and attribution. <i>Journal of Personality &amp; Social Psychology, 37</i>, 322–336.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Rubinstein, R., Jussim, L., Stevens, S. (2018). Reliance on individuating information and stereotypes in implicit and explicit person perception. <i>Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, 75</i>, 54–70.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Sacks, J. (2015). <i>Not in God’s name</i>. New York, NY: Random House.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Salk, R., Hyde, J., Abramson, L. (2017). Gender differences in depression in representative national samples: Meta-analyses of diagnoses and symptoms. <i>Psychological Bulletin,</i> <i>143</i>(8), r783–822.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Sandseter, E., &amp; Kennair, L. (2011). Children’s risky play from an evolutionary perspective: The anti-phobic effects of thrilling experiences. <i>Evolutionary Psychology, 9,</i> 257–284.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Seligman, M. (1990). <i>Learned optimism: How to change your mind and your life</i>. New York, NY: Vintage Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Shakespeare, W. (ca. 1600/2008). <i>Hamlet </i>(G. R. Hibbard, Ed.). Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Shin, L. M., &amp; Liberzon, I. (2010). The neurocircuitry of fear, stress, and anxiety disorders. <i>Neuropsychopharmacology, 35</i>(1), 169–191.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Shweder, R. A. (1996). True ethnography: The lore, the law, and the lure. In R. Jessor, A. Colby, &amp; R. A. Shweder (Eds.), <i>Ethnography and human development</i> (pp. 15–52). Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Sidanius, J., Van Laar, C., Levin, S., &amp; Sinclair, S. (2004). Ethnic enclaves and the dynamics of social identity on the college campus: The good, the bad, and the ugly. <i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 87</i>, 96–110.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Silverglate, H. A. (2009). <i>Three felonies a day: How the Feds target the innocent.</i> New York, NY: Encounter Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Singer, D. G., Singer, J. L., D’Agostino, H., &amp; DeLong, R. (2009). Children’s pastimes and play in sixteen nations: Is free-play declining? <i>American Journal of Play, 1</i>(3), 283–312.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_327" title="327"/>Sloane, S., Baillargeon, R., &amp; Premack, D. (2012). Do infants have a sense of fairness? <i>Psychological Science, 23</i>(2), 196–204.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Solomon, A. (2014). <i>The noonday demon: An atlas of depression</i>. New York, NY: Scribner Classics.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Solzhenitsyn, A. I. (1975). <i>The Gulag Archipelago, 1918–1956: An experiment in literary investigation</i> (Vol. 2) (T. P. Whitney, Trans.) New York, NY: Harper Perennial.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Starmans, C., Sheskin, M., &amp; Bloom, P. (2017). Why people prefer unequal societies. <i>Nature Human Behaviour, 1</i>(4), 0082.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Sue, D. W., Capodilupo, C. M., Torino, G. C., Bucceri, J. M., Holder, A. M., Nadal, K. L., &amp; Esquilin, M. (2007). Racial microaggressions in everyday life: Implications for clinical practice. <i>American Psychologist, 62</i>(4), 271–286.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Tajfel, H. (1970). Experiments in intergroup discrimination. <i>Scientific American, 223</i>(5), 96–102.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Taleb, N. N. (2007). <i>The black swan: The impact of the highly improbable</i>. New York, NY: Random House.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Taleb, N. N. (2012). <i>Antifragile: Things that gain from disorder</i>. New York, NY: Random House.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Tetlock, P. E., Kristel, O. V., Elson, B., Green, M., &amp; Lerner, J. (2000). The psychology of the unthinkable: Taboo trade-offs, forbidden base rates, and heretical counterfactuals. <i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 78,</i> 853–870.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Thibaut, J. W., &amp; Walker, L. (1975). <i>Procedural justice: A psychological analysis</i>. Hillsdale, NJ: L. Erlbaum Associates.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Thucydides (1972). <i>History of the Peloponnesian War. (</i>R. Warner, Trans.). London: Penguin Classics.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Tuvel, R. (2017). In defense of transracialism. <i>Hypatia, 32</i>(2), 263–278.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Twenge, J. M. (2017). <i>iGen: Why today’s super-connected kids are growing up less rebellious, more tolerant, less happy—and completely unprepared for adulthood—and what that means for the rest of us.</i> New York, NY: Atria Books.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Twenge, J. M., Joiner, T. E., Rogers, M. L., &amp; Martin, G. N. (2018). Increases in depressive symptoms, suicide-related outcomes, and suicide rates among U.S. adolescents after 2010 and links to increased new media screen time. <i>Clinical Psychological Science, 6</i>(1), 3–17.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Tyler, T. R., &amp; Blader, S. L. (2014). <i>Cooperation in groups: Procedural justice, social identity, and behavioral engagement</i>. New York, NY: Psychology Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Tyler, T. R., &amp; Huo, Y. J. (2002). <i>Trust in the law: Encouraging public cooperation with the police and courts</i>. New York, NY: Russell Sage Foundation.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">van der Vossen, B. (2014). In defense of the ivory tower: Why philosophers should stay out of politics. <i>Philosophical Psychology, 28</i>(7), 1045–1063. doi: 10.1080/09515089.2014.972353</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Vaughn, D., Savjani, R. R., Cohen, M., &amp; Eagleman, D. M. (under review). Empathy is modulated by religious affiliation of the other.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Walster, E. H., Walster, G. W., &amp; Berscheid, E. (1978). <i>Equity: Theory and research</i>. Boston, MA: Allyn &amp; Bacon.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ward, D. T. (1994). <i>Happy ending and day of absence: Two plays</i>. New York, NY: Dramatists Play Service.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Wiltermuth, S. S., &amp; Heath, C. (2009). Synchrony and cooperation. <i>Psychological Science, 20</i>(1), 1–5.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Wolff, R. P., Moore, B., &amp; Marcuse, H. (1965/1969). <i>A critique of pure tolerance.</i> Boston, MA: Beacon Press.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Woodard, C. (2011). <i>American nations: A history of the eleven rival regional cultures of North America</i>. New York, NY: Viking.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Zhiguo, W., &amp; Fang, Y. (2014). Comorbidity of depressive and anxiety disorders: Challenges in diagnosis and assessment. <i>Shanghai Archives of Psychiatry, 26</i>(4), 227–231.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Zimbardo, P. G. (2007). <i>The Lucifer effect: Understanding how good people turn evil.</i> New York, NY: Random <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_328" title="328"/>House.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>